all right hello everyone my name is Jay
I'm one of the expert IELTS teachers
here at e to language comm if you don't
know what eatery language is go and
check it out it's a really good website
to prove help you to prepare for your
IELTS test but it won't just give you
test strategies and methodologies which
are very effective by the way it will
also teach you the fundamentals of
English as well so if you're looking to
improve your English check out that
website do share it amongst your friends
tonight we're doing a deceptively hmm it
seems easy but in fact it's one of the
harder reading questions that you'll
find in your IELTS exam and it will
appear well I shouldn't say this but it
probably will appear in every single
reading test that is IELTS reading
multiple choice don't walk away I've got
a great method for this one which I want
to show you which will help you to
select the correct answer so by now you
should know that there are 11 different
reading question types or task types so
we're done a full-circle were going back
to number one to do multiple choice let
me explain this task to you it's pretty
simple you get the question here that
says da da a B C or D and you just need
to select one of these so it's very
uncomplicated right but what we want is
a method that can help us to select the
right answer more efficiently but also
just help us to select the right answer
because that's often very hard in doing
this this is the method read the
question please read this question okay
now what you want to do after you've
read that question and understood it
let's read it says researchers the
research completed in 1982 found that in
the United States soil erosion
what now you locate a key word in the
question right let's say you've located
the key word 1982 or it could be United
States or
be soil erosion one of those are
certainly keywords because next thing
you want to do is locate that
corresponding keyword in the text see
that word there 1982 so you've found the
part of the text in which you need to
read more carefully to select the right
answer now you don't want to read the
answer options yet right don't get
confused what people do is they read the
question prompt then the answer options
by the time you've gotten to D you're
thinking oh my god I don't know what to
look for I don't know what I'm I'm
confused what did the question ask again
read the question prompt locate the part
of the text where you need to read more
carefully then try to answer the
question yourself in your mind by doing
this so research completed in 1982 found
that in the United States soil erosion
da da da da then you read this part of
the text and you find out what happened
to soil erosion right
in 1982 then you go and you match your
answer to one of the answer options for
example let's say the youth in 1982 in
the United States soil erosion was
eliminated as a problem okay so you read
that you know the problem was eliminated
in 1982 okay cool I think I understand
that now I go to the answer options
which one of these says the same thing
that I just thought of that it was
eliminated you get a no not a b.o.b says
it was eliminated or might use different
words something like that okay so that's
the method that you should use that's
the method that works that's a method
that we're about to apply right now no
we're not I'm gonna give you a little
disclaimer if you get stuck eliminate
impossible answer options because by
eliminating ones that you know are
incorrect it will increase your chances
of selecting the right one your answer
sheet will look like this so you're
gonna write a B C or D on the answer
sheet next to the numbers let's put this
method to the test I'm going to give you
four minutes to end
sir number one and number two okay
four minutes to answer number one and
number two
you
okay that's four minutes you should have
done question one in question two it was
quite a long period of time we've got
one more question to do stay with this
try and do it because this is what it's
actually like in the IELTS exam and it's
frustrating you're probably sitting
there you going I don't know I don't get
it it's confusing that added up but
that's how you improve you have to push
through those frustrating feelings those
I don't know those those feelings of
confusion and concentrate and look and
try again and look again I'm going to
show you the answers in a second we'll
go through it in detail let's do one
more question you're going to have two
minutes to complete question three here
find a key word in the question find it
in their text answer the question in
your mind and then go to the answer
options
you
oh I think I'm thinking it's going on
there the clock has stopped everybody
that's probably what's going on there
cool that's probably enough time anyway
sorry about that the timer time is
screwed up that's fine let's go through
the answers but I'm gonna break it down
for you and get you to answer the
questions but before we do that if you
are not a subscriber on your phone if
you're watching this on your phone
you've got this subscribe button right
you've got the subscribe button here
next to the subscribe button is a little
bell make sure you tick that so when
we're doing a live stream it will alert
you that we're doing a live stream so we
did hit a hundred thousand which is cool
but we want more so subscribe to this
channel let's go through the answers
number one research completed in 1982
found that in the United States soil
erosion so in other words what happened
in the United States in 1982 to soil
erosion
well the key word we found was here
wasn't it soil erosion in the United
States 1982 so we know we have to read
around this section here more
specifically we have to read this
section so forget the answer options
what happened to soil erosion in the
United States in 1982 well it says the
United States where the most careful
measurements have been done in other
words the research discovered in 1982
that about one-fifth of its farmland was
losing topsoil at a rate likely to
diminish the soils productivity now 1/5
is the same as 20% so in other words in
1992 20% of its farmland was losing
topsoil and diminishing its productivity
now we go to the answer options reduce
the productivity of farmland by 20% well
no it didn't say that it didn't say it
reduced the productivity it said it
reduced the 1/5 of its farmland was
losing topsoil so it lost 20% of the
topsoil so let's stick with the 20% C
was causing significant damage to 20%
farmland we can eliminate B because it
didn't say anything about India and
China it didn't say anything about
meadow for us it probably said something
over here but this is the key sentence
the answer is C in other words what's
happening here is this statement here
that thing there says the same thing is
that thing there but just in different
words and that's how the IELTS do the
multiple choice questions let's look at
oh sorry
on your answer sheet you should have
written number one see number one C is
correct let's do number two by the
mid-1980s farmers in Denmark okay so
we've got a great keyword there which is
Denmark okay so we're going to look for
Denmark it might be a synonym like Dane
or Danish mid-1980s might say something
like 1985 but let's look for Denmark and
we can see Denmark Denmark down here we
can also see sort of 1985 here 1984 more
specific sentence we need to read is
this one by the mid-1980s farmers in
Denmark or what did they do
fertilizer use doubled in Denmark in the
period 1960 to 1985 and increase in the
Netherlands by 150 percent forget the
Netherlands fertilizer use doubled in
Denmark by the mid-80s fertilizer use
doubled in Denmark by the 1980s mid
1980s here so farmers in Denmark use 50%
less fertilizer used twice as much
fertilizer doubled okay that's
interesting that could be a good one
let's let's let's use B and let's look
on applied fertilizer much more
frequently nothing mentioned about
frequency more than doubled the amount
of pesticide okay let's go back let's
make sure be used twice as much
fertilizer as they had in 1960 they
doubled the amount fertilizer use
doubled from 1960
to 1985 in other words be they used
twice as much fertilizer as they had in
1960 this is hard by the way if you're
struggling with this good reason it's
really tough this is an academic test
this is an academic test so if you're
doing general it will be slightly easy a
bit full-on
I want to show you something a little
bit of a TV commercial what I'm going to
show you is e to language so this is e
to language and I'm logged in as an
IELTS student I just want to show you
some of the features here so it's
keeping track of my score which by the
way I'm doing terribly here I can
register for all the live classes which
happened Monday Tuesday Wednesday
Thursday Friday here I can book a
tutorial let's say I'm going to book a
one-on-one tutorial with one of the
teachers so I'll choose a day let's say
I want to choose Tuesday let's say I
choose a time perfect 11 a.m. I wanted
to focus on IELTS academic writing task
1 and let's do some reading as well I
submit that I schedule it and it hooks
me up with a teacher I take a one-on-one
45 minute tutorial with a teacher on Zoo
okay it's beautiful let me show you a
little bit more I hope this isn't boring
you let's click on IELTS course let's
click on reading so here we've got all
the different reading task types that
I've showed you write multiple choice
but the overview got the method we've
got practice let's have a look at the
practice so if you are struggling you
probably need to practice here's the
text here here are the questions here's
the answer sheet just like you take in
the IELTS so it's all digital and it's
beautiful writings the same you can
submit your writing through for feedback
you can also submit your speaking part 2
through for feedback anyway I just
wanted to show you that let's push on to
question number 3 so on your answer
sheet you should have C and B ok number
3 which one of the following increased
in New Zealand after 1984 so what are
the key words here in the question
prompt what would you look for
in the text well certainly New Zealand
is a good one 1984 but the key word
that's driving this question is which of
the following increased okay in New
Zealand after 1984 so if we look
carefully and we scan our eyes over the
text we start to see whoops we start to
see the key word New Zealand we see the
word 1984 we know we need to read this
section here so which increased let's
read it
the most dramatic example was that of
New Zealand which scrapped most farm
support in 1984 so scrapping something
is not increasing it it's decreasing it
or eliminating it a study of the
environmental effects can done conducted
in 1993 well that's irrelevant found
that the end of fertilizer subsidies had
been followed by a fall not an increase
in fertilizer use a fall compounded by
the decline in decline not an increase
in world commodity prices which cut farm
incomes cut farm incomes is not an
increase you can see all of these words
are here but they're talking about
declines not increases let's keep
reading the removal of subsidies well
that's not an increase also stopped land
clearing and overstocking well stopping
is not increasing which in the past had
been the principal cause of erosion
farms began to diversify okay so so this
little sentence here this five-word
sentence farms began to diversify is the
key sentence because that's the thing
that increased after 1984 so let's look
at the answer options farming comes
stopped or decrease use of fertilizer
decreased overstocking stopped farm
diversification began to diversify in
other words it increased so the answer
is d your answer sheet should my friends
look like this 1 C 2 B 3 D
if you did get that if you got C B and D
put some sort of smiley face into the
chat because you are officially some
kind of IELTS legend now because that
although it was multiple choice and it's
a pretty simple question type that was
tough
seriously tough seriously tough you need
some practice you know where to go
cool that's all so as I said if you do
need some practice check out
www.engvid.com and I showed you what the
inside looks like so you now know what
happens in there we have tutorials
writing feedback speaking feedback and
much more see you soon thanks very much